Hello everyone.
In this lesson we are going to learn about cloud functions before we worry about what a cloud function
is.
Let's first give ourselves a goal.
So right now we're looking at the finished product of what we're going to build together in this lesson.
You can see down at the very bottom of my Web site even below the footer.
I've added this new area named secret client area and there's this input so you can imagine that maybe
we have clients and they can visit our Web site and they have a secret password that the general public
doesn't have.
So we want them to be able to come here type that value in and then be able to view content secret content
that we don't want the public to be able to view.
So if I type in a bogus incorrect password on purpose you can see a red error message.
That secret phrase is not correct.
Try again.
So if I enter the correct secret phrase which is javascript super secure.
Right.
If I submit that you can see.
Welcome to the secret area for you.
Here we can tell you that the sky is blue in two plus two equals four.
Now clearly this feature is not very impressive or complex but it's important for us to work on because
it illustrates the need for back end or server side code.
Let me refresh really quick.
The idea is that the logic that determines if this password is correct or incorrect.
Well that logic needs to be executed on the back end or the server side.
It's not that a web browser can't execute that logic.
It's that we absolutely would not be able to trust the web browser to execute it.
Right.
So technically we could write a javascript if statement to check if this input equals a certain value
or not but if it's front and JavaScript we would have to send that code to the web browser for the web
browser to actually run and execute.
Now if we lived in a perfect world where everyone was a perfect citizen with zero evil intentions we
could actually get away with that.
But in the real world there are tons of malicious users and a malicious user could just take that javascript
that you sent to their web browser and they would modify and manipulate it to do whatever they wanted
so they could set it up so that no matter what you type into this field their web browser evaluates
to true and lets them in.
Or they could just dig through that browser based javascript and find the secret content.
So big picture in order to do anything securely.
We need to have a private and trusted environment where we can run code.
So this is the whole point of a back end or these server side.
The idea is even if I am a malicious user I type in my value whether it's correct or incorrect that
value gets sent off to a server somewhere and it's up to that server that hardware to run the code that
determines if that value is correct or not.
Then it sends back its response and then that's what I see in my browser.
So even if I'm a malicious user I didn't have the opportunity or the power to make anything bad happen.
Now I realize none of this is earth shattering news.
We all know that server side code exists for a reason.
The issue is that our Web site is static HDMI.
It's not like this is generated by P HP or Python or Ruby.
It's just an HD CML file being served up by very basic servers.
Right.
Because whether it's GitHub pages or net Lafite servers they aren't actually running any server side
or back in language they're just a simplistic file system server that literally just sends whatever
files we tell it to send.
So the question becomes how can we have the speed and security benefits of a static web site while still
being able to perform actual actions that require server side logic.
Well this is where cloud functions come into play.
Now I realize I still haven't explained what a cloud function is.
Instead of trying to use words to describe it let's just build the cloud function right here right now.
So I will close this finished product preview.
So now my Web site is exactly back to the way your Web site is.
Right.
There's no client area below the footer and let's go set up a cloud function so we can begin to understand
what it is.
So jump over to your text editor and with your travel site project open.
We want to create a new folder.
So not even within the app folder just within the root of the project folder I will right click choose
New Folder.
We could name it anything but.
So you and I are on the same page.
Let's name it cloud dash functions OK within this new folder let's create a new file and just so we're
on the same page.
Let's name this file secret dash area dot J It's OK.
Now in this new file we're going to write a bit of code but I'm not going to explain the code in detail
until we've got it up and running.
So we will circle back to this to make sure we understand what's going on.
But for now I just typed this in with me.
Exports dot handler equals in anonymous functions function parentheses curly brackets inside the function
parentheses.
Let's include three parameters.
Let's say event comma context comma callback.
Inside the body of this function.
Let's call the callbacks.
Call back parentheses to run it we'll give it to arguments first we'll say no comma.
The second argument will be an object so curly brackets inside the curly brackets we can drop down.
Let's give it one property of status code.
That's uppercase C colon.
Two hundred comma.
Let's give it another property of body and let's set this to a string of text that says Welcome to the
super secret area.
OK.
And that's it.
Let's go ahead and save this file.
However before we push it up to get hub we do want to make one change within our net lo fi account.
So right now open up the overview screen for your project on net lo fi and in the top navigation we're
looking for settings to click into settings within this left hand sidebar of the settings screen we're
looking for functions from this function settings screen we can click on edit settings and we just want
to tell nullify what we named that folder that contains our cloud functions.
So remember we gave it a name of cloud dash functions.
Go ahead and save that call at this point.
We are ready to now push our latest changes up to get hub and net fi we'll see our changes.
So then we'll see what happens and we'll begin to understand what a cloud function is.
So in your command line run this with me get add dash uppercase a.
Then let's commit it commit dash M let's say created our first cloud function close up quote push enter
let's push that up to get hubs so get push origin master
we can jump back over the net lo fi and if you click on the deploys section we can see in real time
it hasn't even started building yet but it should start in the next few seconds.
Here we can see that commit message rent created our first cloud function through the magic of video
editing and post-production.
I just waited maybe 30 or 40 seconds and in real time I see that this just updated to published.
So with that in place now we can scroll up and in the top navigation for this net MFI project we can
click on functions awesome since we just push that one function we see one lambda function actively
running in production and down here we see secret area dot J Yes so we can click on this to get a bit
more information so functions secret area it's running in production and here's the cool part we see
end point I want you to grab this U.R.L. and copy it into your clipboard obviously your U.R.L. will
be a bit different than mine right.
This is a randomly generated name but select your U.R.L. and then just open up a new browser tab and
paste in that you are URL and visited when you do that you should see.
Welcome to the super secret area.
So right now we have a lot of questions.
What in the world is going on.
Why is this supposed to be impressive or powerful or interesting and still you're wondering what is
a cloud function.
Well what we do know is that we created this new JavaScript file and it includes a function but when
we visit this U.R.L. our web browser is not executing any javascript code or any functions.
Our web browser is just receiving a simple response a simple string of text.
So the question becomes what is executing or running that function that we wrote.
It's not our personal computer or web browser.
And it's also not the net lo fi server that hosts star HDMI LCROSS and JavaScript.
What's really going on is net lo fi takes the function that we wrote and they send it over to a private
and trustworthy environment over on Amazon Web Services then net the fi sets up a convenient U.R.L.
and whenever anyone sends a request to that you are all net the fi tells Amazon Web Services to run
and execute our function.
And within this function we are free to do anything.
Typically you would actually do something before calling the callback.
So right here you could talk to a database you could tell a third party service to send an email or
if we think back to earlier in this video you could write an if statement to evaluate the incoming string
of text that a visitor sent with their request.
Then once you're done you can call callback.
This is our way of saying our function has done its job so a status code of two hundred means success.
Right.
We all know that a status code of 4 0 4 means cannot be found.
And then this is the actual value of our response.
The whole idea is that within this function we are safe to perform typical back end or server side actions
because the public including potentially malicious visitors of our Web site they will never see any
actual function code that we type here.
The public will only ever see the value that we respond with.
So this function is our private trustworthy environment to run code.
OK.
But why do we call this a cloud function.
Well it's because this function is not being executed by the web browser.
It's not being executed by the static file host.
And it's also not being executed on a server that we as the developer ever need to worry about or be
aware of.
Amazon Web Services will take care of the hardware that our function runs on and depending on how much
traffic our net life eyesight receives.
Amazon Web Services will use as few or as many of their computing resources to execute our function.
So we as the developer don't need to care if Amazon is using one or 100 thousand computers to execute
our function enough times to take care of all of our visitors.
That's why we say it's a cloud function because it just sort of exists out there in the cloud.
We don't need to care about the environment in which it runs in all we need to know is that it's going
to be an environment that speaks the node language.
Right.
So this is javascript intended for the node environment not the web browser environment.
Now to get back to the actual task at hand.
Remember our goal is to add this area at the very bottom of our Web site.
And in order to determine if the visitor typed in the correct secret phrase or not we need to leverage
the power of a cloud function.
So in the very next video we will continue this lesson by learning how to work with any data that the
visitor might have sent along with their request to our cloud function.
You are out if things aren't perfectly clear right now.
That's OK.
I think once we see how our cloud function can have different results or different outcomes depending
on the incoming values I think that'll be a real aha moment.
So let's keep our momentum rolling and I'll see you in the next video.